#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####March 10, 2014 - Class 7

####Quiz:
____________________________________________________________________________

**Markup** - Metatext

**HTML tag** - bracket, tag, attributes, contents

**Head/ body** - Head stores titles and metatext. Body is the content

**Class** - Can be signed to many divs

**ID** - is a unique selector

**Tag selector** - selects a single type of element

**Places to find CSS** - style tag in the head tag, in-line, or a separate file

**Inheritance** - Inheriting styles from the containing element

**Levels of CSS specificity** - style element tag, ID, class, element tag, inheritance from parent, browser default


####Git Workflow Reminder:
____________________________________________________________________________
* In the web browser, create repository("**repo**") on github
* In a shell (terminal on a Mac), cd to folder that is not a repo
* To find out if you are in a repo, **ls -al** and look for ".git" directory
* You can also try **git status** or **git remote -v**
* git remote will tell you what repository git thinks that it is in 
* Full path on mac **/Applications/MAMP/htdocs**
* Place the Code Challenge 1 (**code_challenge_01**)  in htdocs
* Reminder : **htdocs** should contain git repositories but should not itself be a repository
* From the correct folder, use **git clone "url"**  from the correct github page to download the repository
* **git remote origin "url"** to push to github
* **git pull** to update an existing repository
* **git add "filename"** or git add .
* **git commit -m "message"**
* **git push** to update new information to a repository to github


####CSS Box Model:
____________________________________________________________________________

http://www.w3schools.com/css/css_boxmodel.asp

The box model is a representation of the Margin, Border, Padding and Content. Margin, Border, and Padding are often provided by a CSS style sheet.  Content is provided by the HTML.

**\<span>** tags have inline style

**\<div>**  tags have block styling

An important tool is the Chrome **Inspect Element** to look at the box model representations for a current element.

**Box sizing**: For this element, calculate the full width to the border of this element.  A toggle between the way a browser looks at the box model and the way that people look at the way elements sit next to one another.

http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css3_pr_box-sizing.asp

Using a **reset**: to reset default browser settings. Reset is often a separate file.

**float**: rather than a precise location of an element, it is set of relationships.  A secondary flow of the page.  Default display of elements vs flow display of elements.

We are using float as a method for taking control of our position. If an element does not have float, it will have its default position which might seem to be different than what the HTML layout would suggest.

**clear**:  clear is related to float.  Clears and adjusts the elements around a float. 

An unstyled page is how things will look if you do not give it any rules.

**CSS is all about being specific and declaring rules.**


####Class Agile Methods/ Retrospective:
____________________________________________________________________________

It lets you succeed frequently.
It also allows us to make course corrections as we learn.

#####Working:
* Summaries and reinforcing lecture ideas
* Clear diagrams and metaphors
* Recap notes
* Real life examples
* Small group activities
* Work Simulation
* Exposure to tools and communication methods
* Clearer than other people
* Pace
* Topics discreet rather than sprawling
* Pop quiz
* Inspiring examples
* Business dealings
* Lightening talks


#####Delta or Changes:
* Hands on learning
* Better connections between code and effect
* Simplify and focus during example
* More small group and review
* Make screen items clearer/ more obvious during demonstration
* Coffee machine/ noise protocol
* Mimosa optional/ different time
* Code challenges Friday to Monday
* More middle ground material; treehouse = simple, real = complex


Here is a link to the revised syallbus:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/syllabus.md







