#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####March 26, 2014 - Class 14

####More Javascript:
____________________________________________________________________________

Download the current Front End Freelancer Github repository here:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer

#####Javascript Quiz:

Statement : A line of code that is an assignment, expression or a relationship

Character That Separates Statements : semi-colon

The difference between assignments and testing equality

**var a = b;**  - Assignment, assigning var a to the value of b


**a == b;**  Test for equality

or

**a === b;** Also a test for equality that we will talk about later

Javascript lives or at least is referenced in the **HTML** and can influence the **DOM** (**D**ocument **O**bject **M**odel).

#####Javascript Work Flow from the interaction with the user:

**Input** - Takes clicks from the user

**Process** - Processed in Javascript

**Response** - Modifying HTML and CSS - an example is modifying text

**Output** - Refresh the screen

#####Understand Javascript Vocabulary:

In the repository that your cloned, start with the folder:

**week05 > javascript_examples_sequence**

Start with **simple_output.html**

Line 1 - **<!DOCTYPE HTML>**

Declare that the HTML is an HTML5 document

Line 22 - **\<script type="text/javascript"\>**

Tell the browser that the next section is in Javascript code.

Line 23 -  **document.write("\<p>The script is starting…\</p>");**

document is an object.  An object is defined by classes.  A class is a template for creating new objects.

Line 27 - **for (var i=0; i<10; i++) {**

The opening of a javascript loop.  A loop just counts and performs an action.  Every loop has an **initial value**, **test condition** and **iterator**.

**var i = 0**- initial condition

**i** is often used in loops and stands for index.  This variable can by anything defined by yoou

**i < 10**- test condition, test to true or false.  If it evaluates to true, loop ends.

**i++** - iterate the value of i if the test does not evaluate to true

**i++** is a short version of **i += i** which is a short version **i = i + 1**.  All three versions do the same thing.


For each value of i, the loop performs the action within in the loop. In this case:

**document.write("Times this loop has run: "+i+"\<br />");**

This will output:

**Times this loop has run:** (the value of i on each loop)

So the output is:

**Times this loop has run: 1**

**Times this loop has run: 2**

**Times this loop has run: 3**

…
All the way until:

**Times this loop has run: 9**

At which point the value of i = 10  and since 10 is not less than 10, the loop exits.


Line 33 - **\</script>** 

This ends the javascript section and tells the browser to expect HTML next.


#####Understanding buttons:  

**simple_output_button.html**

Making a button:

line 40 - **\<input type="button" onclick="loop_and_display()" value="Run Script" />**

This attaches a chunk of javascript to click. In this case the function **loop_and_display**.

Clicking the button, writes a whole new document and fills it with the same loop that we used in the first example.

**This one element shows how elements are connected to javascript.**

**The second important idea is to use a function to call sections of code.**



A function is a bundle of behavior


#####Modifying a HTML element:

To modify an element:

* **change its HTML content**
* **change its CSS styling**


Open the next file:

**div_area_output.html**

It is good to remember that:

**Modern web design tries to minimize page reloads where possible.**



line 36 - **\<script>**

Start javascript section

line 38 - **function loop_and_display() {**

Write to the buffer so the Javascript can replace DOM element later.


Appending text with the += operator:

**output_html= output_html + "Times this loop has run: "+ i +"\<br />";**


line 48 - **document.getElementById("output_area").innerHTML=output_html;**

Returns the div from the HTML id that is declared on:

line 67 - **\<div id="output_area">**

The javascript is changing content within the HTML **\<div>**

In Sublime right click and select "**Open in browser**" to see the script in action!

We identify the \<div> with the **getElementByID** method.

**innerHTML** fills in the HTML with the script.


#####Modifying a CSS element:

Open the next file:

**div_area_output_and_style.html**


line 17 - **\<style>**

Start the CSS section of the HTML

line 42 - **output_area_div.innerHTML=output_html;**

Find the div and replace its content with the content from the innerHTML.

line 34:  **var output_area_div=document.getElementById("output_area");** 	

Remeber the location of the div tag that we will change text


line 46: **output_area_div.style.background="#ddddee";**

An example of chaining functions that updates the background color.  Chaining of the function can also be in a different order.


line 55: **output_area_div.innerHTML="\<p>Click the \<em>Run Script\</em> button.\</p>"**	

Puts the prompt in the HTML


#####Getting Javascript text into HTML with Forms

Open the next file:

**form_input.html**

A form is a set of inputs.  It is just a set of text inputs.

line 80- **\<form action="#">**

Start the form section of the HTML

line 89 - **\<input name="text1" type="text" />**

Take the line of text from the form and feed it into a javascript function.

line 90 - **\<input name="submit" type="button" value="show me" onclick="display_alert_and_window(form.text1.value)" \/>**

On the click of the submit button take the text from the form

The text is used in the **display_alert_and_window** function on:

line 47 - **display_alert_and_window(textString)**

This function takes textString as an argument which is the text that we submitted in the form from line 89.

line 33 = **if (result==true) {**

If **if** statement is true do one thing and if it is false do something else.

In this case if it is true change the background color one way and if the statement is false, change the background to a different color.

line 42 - **alert("You pressed " + button +"!");**

Alert is a modal dialog box.  Use alerts with caution.

line 27 - **var result=confirm("Press a button and watch the output area…");**

Confirm method will verify the button was clicked.

Remember in Sublime right click and select "**Open in browser**" to see the script in action!

#####External Javascript and CSS files:

Open the file:

**form_input_external.html**

Notice that there is hardly any code in this example.  That is because the javascript and css files are stored in separate files.

How do we find the javascript (.js) and css (.css) files?

We find the css file with a path:

line 7 - **\<link rel="stylesheet" href="6-form_input.css">**

We find the js file with a div:

line 8 - **\<script type="text/javascript" src="6-form_input.js"></script>**

The HTML buttons are still in the HTML file on line 31 and 32.







