#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####March 24, 2014 - Class 13

####Starting Programming:
____________________________________________________________________________


We are going to start with Javascript in the browser.   Our goal is to understand page manipulation in Javascript.  We will be also be working with JQuery.

We are going to start with Javascript in the browser.   Our goal is to understand page manipulation in Javascript.  We will be also be working with JQuery.

#####Assignments and Expressions:

As statement or an expression looks like an equation but it is not.

In programming:

y = a * x ^ 2;

A and X are variables and are assigned to y.

So the format of any expression follows these guidelines:

Variable to to Store (assignment operator , like = ) Expression to be evaluated

So in:

**y = x + 2;**

**y** - Variable to store assignment

**=** - Assignment Operator

**x + 2** - Expression

**;** - Most javascript statement end with a semi colon

Expression on the left is assigned to something on the right.

#####Evaluation Order:

In the Javascript engine, programs are executed in sequence and are evaluated from the top of the page to the bottom

A variable has to be assigned before it can be used so that means that the assignment has to be above the expression in which you use it.

#####Variables

What is a variable?

A variable is a location to store the value of an expression.

You **declare** a variable and **assign** it to a value or expression.

A good analogy is a variable is a box or a jar.  It has a name and it holds a value.

A variable has a type. Different types are numbers or strings.

To declare a variable:

**var name = Initial Value;**

**var** - Tell Javascript that you want to declare a variable


So a good example of a variable declaration  is:

**var user = "Al";**

Programming most often moves from right to left.  It starts with the expression and then it is assigned to variable.


#####Strings

If a value has quotes, it is a string.

So "21" is not a number but a string.

Strings are different from numbers.


#####Variable Types

* **Numbers** - number
* **Strings** - text
* **Objects** - A collection of variables and functions
* **Functions** - A collection of statements
* **Boolean** - A value that is either true or false

Variable types are fluid in Javascript but more constrained in other languages.

#####Naming Variables

How the variables are capitalized is important!

Javascript is often written in camel case in which the first letter of the first word is lowercase but the first letter of the remaining names are capitalized like this:

**thisIsAReallyLongVariableName**

Functions and Objects are also written in camel case.

#####Math in Javascript

The Pythagorean Theorem

A^2 + B^2 = C^2

In Javascript solving for C is:

c = Math.sqrt(Math.pow(a,2) + Math.pow(b,2));


An expression has operands which can also variables or functions and operators.

Figure it out on the right and assign it on the left.

#####Testing Equality in Javascript:

Here is another example:

a = 5;
b = 10;
a == b; - false because a does not equal b

######To Learn more about Javascript

Language, Tools, Library, Community

Javascript meetups on Thursday nights

#####Introducing the REPL:
____________________________________________________________________________


What is the REPL?

**REPL** - **R**ead **E**valuate **P**rint **L**oop

There is a REPL in the Chrome Browser tools.

Right click go **Inspect Element** and select **Console**

In the console type:

**var user  = "Al";**

Returns undefined

**user**

Returns "Al"

To append text:

**user += "Zimmerman";**

Returns "Al Zimmerman"

Function calls:

**alert("Hi");**

Alert is a built in function that takes arguments in this case the text string "Hi".

Returns a pop up with "Hi"


#####Manipulating the DOM

**DOM** - **D**ocument **O**bject **M**odel

Enter this into the console:

**document.write("Hi");**

Returns Hi in the web page

Semi colons separate one statement from the next

**count = 0; while(count<10){document.write(count); count++};**

Returns 1 - 9

Add a DOM element to make the output more readable:

**count = 0; while(count<10){document.write(count + "<br>"); count++};**

Returns 1 - 9, each on their own line

####Here are some good resources to learn Javascript

Into to JS on Kahn Academy:

https://www.khanacademy.org/cs/programming

http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/javascript

http://codecombat.com/code

http://www.codewars.com/



####Vitamin T - Katie Silver , Market Manager at Vitamin T:
____________________________________________________________________________

http://vitamintalent.com/


Vitamin T works a lot with Freelancers and Temporary Work

**Contract to Hire** - Start as Freelancer and eventually moves to a permanent job but allows both the employee and the employer to walk away if it is not a good fit.

A staffing agency is a like a talent agent.

What do you want long term?  What do you want right now?

Finding a good for both skill set and long term goals

1. Review your portfolio
2. Meet with a Technical Expert to review your code
3. They score you from 1 - 5 and give you feedback



A portfolio is often more important than a resume.

Portfolio should have live links.

You need to clearly articulate what your role was on a given project.

Typical Contract for Hire Workflow

1. An agency calls Vitamin T
2. Vitamin T calls you and asks you if you are available at 9 tomorrow
3. You would start at CMD the next day

It is very very fast paced.

It is better to be honest rather than trying to do something that you are not prepared for.


Work might be in Portland but it also might be telecommuting.


Vitamin T is looking for Reliability and Follow Through

Do you call back?

Demonstrate a level of professionalism

Your technical assessment can boosted with lynda.com to make your skills better

You are paid when you are on the job but you still have the benefits and the resources as well as Vitamin T would be looking for work.

#####How should we prepare?

**Start to advocate for yourself** - Contact with as many people as possible

**Start going to meetups and recruiters** - 

**Establish a presence on social media** - LinkedIn and Twitter

**Follow every company you want to work for on Twitter** _ Job postings are often mentioned on Twitter

meetup.com is a good place to find meet ups
PDX web and design

Ask other people where they go?

PDX Tech is also a good one as well.

Let everyone know that you are looking for work and that you are in Code School.

Hiring managers are looking for excitement and a willingness to learn.

Javascript, HTML5 , mobile apps, Angular, Backbone

They are interested in full stack.

A desire for front end developer to be open to middleware and back end.

Some common roles:

Developers. Designers. Producers/Project Managers.

**Communication is a very important skill!**

Understanding how to communicate with your client and your team.

Is there a time when your communication skills moved a project forward?


Teamwork. Documenting your process is always important.

Most of the time bring your own machine and more often than not a mac.

You can midlevel within a year.

Junior does not need to last very long.

It is determined by the amount and quality of the projects.

#####Salary expectations:

Vitamin T negotiates the salary that you want to make?

Client pays Vitamin T comission.

Starting Salary - $35,000 - $45,000

Midlevel Salary - $45,000 - $55,000

AIGA web calculator

It is more expensive for a company to work with you through Vitamin T than by working with you directly.

Portfolio and Volunteer work, projects that you are willing to get involved with, are the most important things.

Work every angle. Work hard to get a job.

Any all channels to communicate your interests and your passion about your work is important.






