#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####May 12, 2014 - Class 34

####WordPress Review:
____________________________________________________________________________



####Version Control for WordPress

Remember a good file structure keeps the vendor material separate from you custom code.

One good file structure might be similar to:

* **custom** - your code
* **public** - code that is deployed
* **vendor** - vendor code like WordPress or Bootstrap

Remember to the think about the **context** of your code when you are thinking about file structure and version control.n **Context** is thinking about the relationship and smart ways to separate your **custom** code from the **vendor** code.

For the time being using the credentials **admin** and **password** at least for a school project.  Credentials for the database should be **root** and **root**.

The main questions are how do you update the **vendor** files without losing or changing **custom** code.

A good tool for expanding text is **atext** and runs in the background:

http://www.trankynam.com/atext/


**One WordPress workflow might be:**

* **FTP all files from server**
* **Dumped DB**
* **Install WordPress with old DB**
* **Checked all legacy plugins**
* **Updated WordPress component that I could**
* **Add new plugins if necessary**
* **Adjust all settings in the "Appearance" and "Theme"**
* **Synchronize with your team**
* **Project Milestone** - At this point we have not done anything new before this point

* **Now we can start working!**

* **Make wp-admin based changes**
* **Dump DB**

* **Make Repo Now!**
 
After your reach a **project milestone** the goal is not have to think about that part of the project ever again.  **Plan your project so you do not have to go backwards.**

What is in a **WordPress** database?

* The answer is anything that is done through **wp-admin**

**Table Prefix** - tells WordPress how find the correct tables in the database file.  Without the correct table prefix, then WordPress will not find it.


**Only version control your custom code folder** 

**Always save a copy of your vendor distribution for your code as well but not in Git**

While **Craft**, allows a file tree structure like custom, public and vendor, unfortunately WordPress does not.

We will have to find WordPress specific folders.

**Version controlling your custom code folder in WordPress**:

* **wp_content** is an option and might be good to discuss with your team.


Things get a little complex when thinking about **plug-ins** and **themes** because some of them might be **vendor** code while your **child themes** are probably **custom** code.

Staying up to date on your components is very important.

**Pick a WordPress folder that has your custom code,  wp_content is one choice**

**Velvet Blues** is a good plugin for updating WordPress links:

https://wordpress.org/plugins/velvet-blues-update-urls/


**WordPress Address URL** is important but not versionable and so might have to manually changed in the database.

####Workflow Example

From Basecamp, here is the workflow that we are going to follow:

```
Hi Guys,

We're ready to start working on WP Example. Here's what you'll need to set up your dev environment.

Fresh, up to date install of Wordpress
Download and activate the Velvet Blues Plugin
Grab the DB I've attached here and import it
Update your URLS
Install Divi (attached here)
Ping me when you're done

```

Here is the link:

https://basecamp.com/2599354/projects/5880969-wp-example/messages/25661735-dev-environment


After a fresh install of **WordPress** and importing the database go to:

* **wp_options**
* Change line 1 **site url** and line 33 **home** to the local path of your project

In my case the new path looks like:

```
http://localhost:8888/wpexample

```



####Update URL's with Velvet Blues

In **wp-admin** go to **Tools** -> **Update URLs**

Type the old URL and the new one, in my case:

```
Old URL:  	http://localhost:8888/pcs/wpexample

New URL:	http://localhost:8888/wpexample
```


You should see a message of:

```
Success! Your URLs have been updated.

Results	
1 Content Items (Posts, Pages, Custom Post Types, Revisions)
0 Excerpts
0 Links
0 Attachments
0 Custom Fields

```


####Update to Divi Child Theme

Here is the Github repo link:

https://github.com/nimwunnan/Divi_Child

Download and put in the **wp-content** -> **themes** folder

In **WordPress**, go to **Themes** and click on the **Add New** button at the top of the page.  Select your new theme.



####Version Control in Git with WordPress

Besides **wp-content**,  a project might require **multiple** Github repos so that more of your **custom** files are repoed and less **vendor** files.

**We want our work to look and feel the same as much as possible**

####WordPress and Bootsrap
WordPress Bootstrap Short Codes:

http://wordpress.org/plugins/bootstrap-shortcodes/