#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####May 14, 2014 - Class 35

####Professionalism:
____________________________________________________________________________

There is never anything wrong about not knowing something.  We are all learning.

The important thing is how do handle yourself during crunch time?

If you do not know something, speak up, don't wait.  Waiting if there is a problem, especially in a team environment, often puts the whole project at risk.

**Speak up!**

Let your team know how your doing.  If you are getting tired or stressed, just communicate it.

Make sure you are doing the **right work** and at the right time.


**Some Important Work Flow Questions**

* I am doing the right thing?

* Should I take a break?

* Am I accomplishing what I wanted to accomplish?

 
####WordPress Review:
____________________________________________________________________________

WordPress has a **meaningful** file structure.  **Names** and **folder** locations are important.

**Some Common WordPress Attributes of a Post:**

* **Category** 
* **Author**
* **Tag**
* **Date**

These **attributes** are part of the WordPress **API** which means that we can have acess to them through **functions** and **placeholders**.

Each of these provide a way for WordPress to organize information.

They are related but three different WordPress entities.

WordPress will use **templates** to organize information into **pages**.

**Slugs** - Short name given to an article that is in production. Line of type cast as one piece.

A **Slug** in WordPress is one you have a **description** or a **name** without any spaces often with a **"_"** or a **"-"**.


#####WordPress Templates

Here is a good resource on **templates** from the **codex**:

http://codex.wordpress.org/Stepping_into_Templates

**Template Hierarchy**:

http://codex.wordpress.org/Template_Hierarchy


Here is a guide to the **structure**:

http://codex.wordpress.org/images/1/18/Template_Hierarchy.png

A nicer version is:

http://3j68xu1tybju34n8yb4fm4b189a.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/
2013/04/wordcamp-mpls-theme-template-poster.png

Another version is:

http://wphierarchy.com/

You can see that they are **decision trees**.  There are certain requirements that need to be met if the element is to be included in a **page**.

This is how we **build** a webpage based on **templates**. This is how **index.php** is built.


#####WordPress Presentation Flow

**URL** - website address

to

**Content in the Database** - conditions

to 

**Special Templates** - Are there special templates?

to

**Template Files** - The **bridge** between the **Database** and the **Browser**.  Templates are **placeholders**.

to

**Browser Shows Me Content** - index.php

#####Attributes to Templates

**Attributes** like **tag**, **category** and **author** are going to draw on a specific **templates**.

#####Special Templates

http://codex.wordpress.org/Category_Templates

This is a specific example for the **category** but can be applied to any **attribute**.

**Like CSS, WordPress is always looking for the most specific condition.**  This applies to **templates** as well.

Here is an example of a hierarchy for category:

```
From most to least specific for template for a category:

1. category-slug.php
2. category-ID.php
3. category.php
4. archive.php
5. index.php
```

Remember, you have diagrams to help you remember the hierarchy:

http://wphierarchy.com/

Use the **id** if you think that the **slug** will change.

**Use different templates, when you have a reason to.**

#####Categories and Templates

**Presentation** works best in **CSS**.

http://wordpress.org/support/topic/how-to-get-the-current-category-slug?replies=3


You use WordPress **Admin** to get things into the **database**.  You write **code** to get things out.

A lower level answer, is look at what option your theme gives you, and find creative ways to work within it.

A good WordPress resource is to go back to the Week 8 class outine:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/week08/week08_plan.md 










