#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####May 16, 2014 - Class 36

####WordPress Review:
____________________________________________________________________________

**Skeleton** is a common skeleton WordPress theme:

http://themes.simplethemes.com/skeleton/

That is a variation on:

http://www.getskeleton.com/

It is an uncommon to build a theme from scratch Usually you would build on a existing one.

It is a good general purpose theme.

#####Theme Decision Tree

**Can I use an existing theme?**

If no,

**Can I use or build upon a barebones theme?**

If no,

**Do I need to build it from scratch?**

####WordPress Deployment:
____________________________________________________________________________


The process is similiar to moving it to someone's elses local environment.  Your site will need to be deployed to a server.

A server has a control panel:

https://billing.qth.com/cpanel-demo.html

There is a lot of junk here.  Find what you need and do not touch the other stuff.

Remember if you are using a control panel, it is a level of abstraction above the actual server.

**The goal is to execute code in a controlled and authenticated environment.**

The **c-panel** allows access to the server without access to the command line.

**Keep digging until you find what you want.**

**Be patient.**

Use **phpMyAdmin** or **Sequel Pro** to access both your server and your local host databases.

Remember when you use **MAMP** or **WAMP**, you are running a local server.

If you are using an external server,  it is the same process but with more authentication.


####From Terminal

* **ssh** into the server like **ssh someone@somewhere.com**
* It will acess for a password
* This will bring you into your folder tree on the server
* **ftp**- file transfer protocol - to upload files to a server
* Access to the server is granted by the server owner which is often sys admin or hosting company

**Sequel Pro** can also log into server to **ssh**

Have a **github** repo of a child theme and then **ftp** it to the hosting server.


#####Often Worth Keeping but Not Exceeding Expectations

http://spp.sagepub.com/content/early/2014/05/08/1948550614533134.abstract




