#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####May 21, 2014 - Class 38

####Learning from Improv:
____________________________________________________________________________

Thinking about character.

The things that we do over and over again become skills and also character traits.


**Actions**->**Habit**->**Character**

But also

**Habits**->**Skills**

Repetition leads to intentionality and allows an opportunity to counter expectation.


#####To do list vs To be list

* **What do you want to be in 6 months?**

Then

* **What does that person do habitually?**

In a concrete sense, what are the behaviors that we can apply today to get us closer to that goal?

**How can we bring our goals closer every day?**

**Develop the habits of tomorrow today!**

More often than not, we can't do it alone.

We need people, connections and **cohorts**. Our habits are also the people that we **connect** with.

So

**Habits**->**Cohorts**


**There is a danger in not thinking about what we are going to do next.**


Cummulatively, our decisions lead to a career and eventually into a legacy.  Our decisions are cummulative.

This why procrastination is dangerous, we sometimes never get around to do things that we really need to do.

**Decisions**->**Actions**->**Habits**->**Skills**->**Career**->**Legacy**

Think about the person that you want to be not in the future tense but in present, right now, in the moment and in our decisions for how we spend our time in the next hour.

**How many times do we have to repeat an action before it becomes a habit?**


####Capstone Update:
____________________________________________________________________________

For Friday:

Functional Requirements List of the project in preparation of contracts.

Next week, be prepared to talk and demonstrate progress on your Capstone Project.



