#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####April 28, 2014 - Class 28

####Telling Your Story:
____________________________________________________________________________


Relating your experience to potential interviewers, employers and/or potential clients.

####Behaviorial Interviews:

```
A behavioral interview is a job interview focused on discovering how an applicant acted in specific employment-related situations. The logic is that your past performance in the workplace will predict your future performance.

Instead of asking how you would behave, the interviewer will ask how you did behave. The interviewer wants to know how you handled a situation, instead of what you might do in a hypothetical situation.

```

####Three Keys to Getting the Job:

* **Appititude** - Skills
* **Attitude** - Character Traits
* **Opportunity** - Networking creates opportunities

**Telling a story is the best way to get a message across.**

**Skills** and **traits** are not observable. **Behavior** is observable.

####How to Tell a Story:
____________________________________________________________________________

Telling a story is a great way to demonstrate your skills and character.

* **People** - Who was involved? (client, team)
* **Problem** - What was needed?  (goal)
* **Action** - What you did?
* **Result** - What happened?
* **Moral** - What you learned?  How you changed?


You can tell a specific story that relates a time that demonstrates the skills they are looking for.

**Common Story Telling Mechanisms:**

* **Portfolio**
* **Resume**
* **Interview**
* **Blog**


Interviewers **prompts** for specific stories.

An example of a behavioral interview question:

```
	"Give me an instance of when you came in on time?"
```
or from a slightly different angle

```
	"Tell me when you were going to be late, how did you repsond and what did 	you learn?"
```

A good interviewer will ask you to talk as much about your **failures** as your **successes**.

**Common Interview Questions and Patterns**

* **What did you learn from a situation and what would you do differently?**

* **How did you handle the situation?**

* **What did I do about the situation?**

* **What can I do for you?**


####Web Developer/ Contractor Traits:

**Character Traits:**

* **Self Motivation**
* **Timely/ Punctual**
* **Communication**
* **Trustworthy**
* **Reliable**
* **Honest**
* **Collaborative**
* **Focused**
* **Ability to learn**

**I am:**

* **Team player**
* **Customer-focused**
* **Technically savvy**
* **Detail-Oriented**
* **Goal-driven,self-starting**

**Strive to be:**

* **Learner**
* **auto-didact**
* **ask questions**
* **enjoy technology**
* **early adopter**
* **explore**
* **pragmatic**

**Three Sentence Story:**

* **People/ actors**
* **Problem/ goal**
* **Action**
* **Moral/lessons learned**

A really strong story is easy to imagine.  It is easy to have the interviewer step into your shoes.

**Trait** <-> **Behavior/Result** <-> **Story**

####Web Developer/ Contractor Skills:

**I can:**

* **Code**
* **Communicate**
* **Collaborate**
* **Plan**
* **Deliver**

**Skills:**

* **Communicate**
* **Deadlines**
* **Use Basecamp**
* **HTML CSS SASS jQuery WordPress MODx**
* **CMS**
* **Git version control**
* **Work on teams**
* **Video conference**
* **Wireframes**
* **Learn skills quickly**
* **Client Summary/Brief**
* **Research on the web**
* **Find Solutions Quickly**
* **Estimate hours**

**Still use the three sentence structure**

Your employers are not hiring you for who you are today. They are likely hiring your for what you will become and how quickly you will become that.

**I had this experience.  It had this results.  I am a better person because of it.**


####Web Developer/ Contractor Portfolio:

Tell the same story in each of the projects in your portfolio:

* **Character Traits**
* **Skills**
* **Customer needs and how did you satisfy them**


**Still use the three sentence structure**

####Communicate and Demonstrate Skills with a Blog:

Blogs are a great way to communicate and demonstrate high level technical skills.

**Think about:**

* **I wanted to do this**
* **I learned this**
* **I did this**



####Branding, Positioning and Style Guides:
____________________________________________________________________________

A good example is **Twitter's** Style Guidelines:

https://about.twitter.com/press/brand-assets

If you are not confident about your design choices,  then find another resource.  If we do not know a piece of code, we would Google it.  The same would be true for visual design, if you need to layout a page, use a template and find some inspiration.

Some examples:

http://ororfest.com/
http://wunnan.com/
http://thebreakthrough.org/

Short simple steps are always better than long complex steps.

Succeed early and often.

**Jekyll** - Simple Static site generator

http://jekyllrb.com/

Be careful of project **inflation**.

**Inflation** is when a project grows beyond its original scope.


**Style guidlines** are often done in Illustrator and show the logos at different sizes and in different contexts.

**Style Guidelines often include:**

* **Logos in different sizes**
* **Light backgrounds and dark backgrounds**
* **Grids, gutters and proportions**
* **Page sizes**
* **Comps** - compostions
* **Color Chart with corresponding values**
* **Fonts in Context**
* **Name, Title, Date, Iteration**


Resources for fonts:

https://www.google.com/fonts

http://www.fontsquirrel.com/

http://www.adobe.com/products/type.html


**If you are coding it, be good to yourself, be easy on yourself**


