#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####March 19, 2014 - Class 11

####Understanding Git with SourceTree:
____________________________________________________________________________

A useful alternative is a powerful Git client called Source Tree:

https://www.atlassian.com/software/sourcetree/overview

It allows you to see the trees, branches, and commits.

#####Typical Git Workflow in a team setting:

1.  Team member 1 pushes changes to Github
2.  Team members 2 and 3 would pull the changes from Github

All of this in on the Master Branch.

The difference between a Pull and a Fetch:

**Pull** - Fetches and then Merges

**Fetch** - Fetch just retrieves the files

Pull combines their changes with your changes in the correct documents.

#####Setup a Repo and Committing Changes
In the console, to create a new file:

**touch test.txt**

To create a respository in a folder:

**git init**

To check status:

**git status**

To check differences between commits
**git diff**

To make a new branch:

**git checkout -b BranchName**

Name your branches with your intentions.  They should be descriptive of what you are going to do.

To stage all files:

**git add .**

Also

**git add filename**

Or

**git add --all**  **git add -A**- this adds and changes to index files as well as the repo


To commit changes:

**git commit -m "Commit Message"**

The default branch is Master.

#####Understanding Branches

To see all branches:

**git branch**

To move to new branch

**git checkout BranchName**

Now all of your changes are in the new branch not in Master

To remove files from a staging area
**git rm fileName**

Other ways of cleaning up the staging area

**git clean**

**git reset**

#####Seeing changes on SourceTree

SourceTree will give you a lot of context about the history and changes to a repo

In SourceTree, the branches are the little blue rectangles.


They are displayed in the column called Graph on the left hand side.

It is a useful way of seeing the files that have not been committed back to Master.

Each branch is a directed graph

When another team member does a git pull for current files, it also brings down the current branches that have not been merged back to Master.

The team member would still have access to all of the branches but they would likely just create their own for their work.

**head** - what is the current working directory showing me

Git is a database of commits

Try to keep your workflow simple and straight forward because things can get complicated if you are not careful

Tracking Branches:

1.  Use Tracking Branches
2. Pull across reps to the same branch

#####Merging Branches

You can also merge branches with 

**git merge branchName**


First step is to merge out, bring your teams changes to yourself.  Do not inflict your changes on your team.

To move to branch:

**git checkout branchName**

Another way to branches is:

**git co branchName**

This copies changes from master

To merge the changes back into master:

Change to master branch

**git checkout master**

To merge changes from your branch
**git merge branchName**

#####Handling Conflicts

If there are conflicts both Git and SourceTree will tell you that there are conflicts.

This would require you fix the conflicts to allow the merge to continue.

To fix up a conflict, just clean up the files and determine which changes are more correct.

Stage the changes with:

**git add fileName** or **git add .**

Commit the changes

**git commit -m "Description"**

Change branches to master:

**git checkout master** or **git co master**

Merge the changes:

**git merge branchName**

Now the two branches match

If your teammates do a pull:

**git pull**

Then your teammates will have all of your changes

Merge out and in to take the integration burden on to yourself.


####Back to MODx and CMS:
____________________________________________________________________________

Make sure MAMP is running and point your browser to:

**localhost:8888/pathToModX**

A common path to MODx is:

**http://localhost:8888/resources/modx-2.2.13-pl/manager/**

But this is dependent on how you set up your files and your version of MODx



#####MODx Overview

Three parts of every CMS:

* **Modularity**
* **Usability**
* **Set of tools that are common**

Common CMS patterns

Open MODx directory in Sublime Text to look at its files

#####MODx Overview

Three parts of every CMS:

* **Files**
* **Data**
* **Configuration**

MODx objects:

* **Template**
* **Chunk**
* **Snippet**

#####In MODx Manager:

Go to the **Elements** tab on the left side select **Templates**

Templates renders material in a repeatable way.

If you are confused in MODx, right-click on something to see if it gives you more information. Also wait to see if there is a tool tip that pops up

Select a template maybe **BaseTemplate** to see where the HTML code will go.

Cut and paste text from **Code Challenge 1** to see how the HTML will be rendered as a template by MODx.


The result of the template is displayed in **Home** page under the **Resources** tab on the left side of MODx.

**Home** is the content area of a page that structured according to the template.

Placeholder  and template replacement example location:

**[[*content]]**

The brackets define areas that are will be replaced by your content.


To see **System Settings**:

Go to **System** along the top bar
and go do to **System Settings**

Scroll down and create a new site called: **Front End Freelancer is great**

#####Chunks
Can be HTML or Javascript

PHP is possible but would go somewhere else

Chunks are stored in a database

The database can be view by going back to MAMP and looking at **phpMyAdmin**

Technically, you can also add parts to the database here is as well but it is not recommended

Placeholder equals it value wherever you put it

Chunks can go into the **Content** or back into the **template** and it will do the same thing.

So for a chunk name Hello the syntax would be:

**[[$hello]]**

The "**$**" works for both chunks and snippets


The "**?**" question mark in the URL is the HTML is the same file with different information.  It is with or without the templates.


PHP is rendering the content in the browser.

Without the question mark, you would get the unmodified HTML.

Everything after the **?** in the URL is called a query


Every Google page is from a single template with a query, notice this URL:
https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=meerkats

Do you see the query "**?**" after webhp?

It is always worthwhile to look at the URL to understand what is being transferred.

In a URL **/** is a path separator and indicates a directory.

A path separator (**/**) would never happen after a query (**?**) because you can not query a directory.

#####Snippets

**System** > **Package Management** > **Get Resources**

**Get Resources** have to be downloaded.

Install it.

This will create a **snippet** called **getResources**

It is uses key value pairs to pull resources to a page

A **chunk** is just a repeated code.

A **snippet** is actual PHP code and would therefore need information or arguments to work.

This is called a **GET** request.


