#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####June 6, 2014 - Class 44

####Running A Freelancing Business:
____________________________________________________________________________


#####Freelancing Issues

Agenda

* How do you separate you as a person vs you as a business?
* Let's talk about money!
* Taxes
* Insurance


####What are the functions of a business?
* **Assign you work**
* **Benefits**
	*	Insurance
	*	Equity
* **Limits your Liability**
	*  	They would sue the company rather you...hopefully
* **Lower Risk**
* **Withhold money for taxes**
* **Contribute to Taxes like Social Security**
* **They do your accounting for you**

As a Freelancer you have to do this yourself.

No one will lower your risk or pay your taxes for you.

####Make a Legal Corportation for your Business
	
Some examples of Business Types

* **Limited Liablity Corporation (LLC)**
* **Single LLC**
	* I am making a business
	* Any profit or loss is mine
	* It is a legal entity
	* It can have a bank account
		* Operating Funds
		* Reserve Funds
	* It can own property
	* It has liability
		* Responsibilities
		* Obligrations
	* These are separate from you
	* You can manages assets to change tax burden
	
Individuals have **Social Security numbers** (SSN) and Businesses have **Employer Identification Number** (EIN).

Corporations tend to incorporate where there are good laws for corporations.  A corporations are subject to the laws and pay taxes in the jurisdiction where the corporation is registered.

In Oregon it is only $100 to start a LLC.

You also want a clear flow of money.

Money goes to the business first. The company accumulates capital.  This money can also be used to meet **expenses** or **purchase assets**.

In order to take advantage of this, you have to keep **very good** records.

This might be:

* Mileage- there is an app for this
* Computers if it used exclusively for the business
* Space if there is a dedicated space in your house


**Always keep good records**. You have to 

#####Two types of expenses
* Draw (an LLC term)
* Salary
* With the expenses,how much do I have to bill?

#####Expenses
* 	**Personnel Salary**
* 	**Rent**
* 	**Infrastructure costs**
	* Computer
	* Telephone
	* Testing Environment
	* Hosting Services
* **Taxes**


####Budget

A budget is:

**Revenue** - **Expenses** - **Taxes** - **Salary** = **Retained Earning**

Top Line is Revenue, Expenses, Taxes, Salary

Bottom Line what you get to keep or Retained Earning

**Increase** the top line to **Increase** the bottom line.


####Taxes!

You are encouraged to make quarterly payments.  It is the anticipated taxes for the coming year.

Your reserve funds should be a minimum of **30%**.

Some of the Taxes you have to budget for are:

* Federal
* State
* City
* Self Employment
* Business

You have to decide how much you will put aways for **taxes**.


If you are contractor, **1099** is a reporting mechanism for the Federal Government.



The time taken to pay taxes does not contribute to your **top line**.

This can be **outsourced** to **accountants**.

As soon as you can, **pay a professional**.


####Liability Protection

People may sue you.

**What kind of insurance do you need?**

* **Health Insurance**
 	* Affiliation
 	* Business
 	* If you have other employees, it is a business expense
* **Liability Insurance**
	* If someone believes you made a mistake
	* Insurance fights for you
	* Up to amount of insurance
	* You have to prove you are a business
	* Not every client will require it
	
It might be a good idea to not get the insurance, until someone **requires** it.
 	

Consider Liability Insurance.


**Make sure your expenses are not more than they need to be.**

**Also, always increase top line revenue**.

These are tools for working with money and diminishing risk.







