#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####April 14, 2014 - Class 22

####Revisiting Vocabulary for Project Workflow:
____________________________________________________________________________

**Agile** - Ask for feedback and think about things can be done differently.  A good way to think about is revisiting the project goals and techniques midway through the project.  Basecamp is set up for agile projects like project goals and to-do lists.

**GTD** - Getting Things Done.  Trello is to-do list that is set of best practices for helping yourself to be productive.

**Waterfall** - A project with one way communication.  A good example is that if you touch something once and then sending it down the line.

Revisit your **pain points**. Think about your workflow.  What parts are working well?  What parts are more difficult?  Can the difficult points be changed or revised?  Can new work strategies help to less the **pain points**.


####Fixed vs Growth Mindset:
____________________________________________________________________________

http://www.brainpickings.org/index.php/2014/01/29/carol-dweck-mindset/

A great article on avoiding the dangers of a fixed mindset.  It is especially difficult because of the nature of web design the tools, techniques and problems are changing all of the time.


One of the big ideas:

* **Fixed Mindset** - Intelligence is static

* **Growth Mindset** - Intelligence can be developed


Sometimes the way that you do research depends on the problem that you are trying to solve.

Your knowledge of yourself should be an asset not a hindrance.

Rather than "I got this" maybe it should be "It is looking good". "It is looking good" gives you room to grow and be adaptable.

####The Planning of Science:
____________________________________________________________________________

http://faculty.utpa.edu/fowler/csci6175/papers/3_1974_Thomas.pdf

**Research vs Goal-oriented work**

Discusses the difference between open ended research and planned, goal orientated science.

Understand the problems that you are trying to solve and finding the best way to achieve it.

When it is appropriate to casting a wide net and digesting what you find versus bucklind down and getting to work.


####Revisiting Soft Words:
____________________________________________________________________________

Thinking about your workflow.  When are you working inefficiently?  Are you being patient with yourself?  Think about how you are feeling when you are working.

* **Guile**
* **Curiosity**
* **Patience**



####Patterns versus Instructions:
____________________________________________________________________________


We are giving you tools versus instructions.

* **Pattern** - a way of going about a workflow.  Strategic
* **Instruction** - Step by step way to solve problem.  Tactical.

A good example is understanding the power of responsive grids.

####The Importance of Inference and Deconstruction:
____________________________________________________________________________

Use your experience to evaluate a situation or a problem.

Different strategies to find the "tail of the tiger".

**It is important to keep these skills and strategies in the forefront of our minds this week.**



####WordPress Part II:
____________________________________________________________________________

Be careful:

**File structure and naming conventions matter in WordPress!**

The result is that WordPress is making more assumptions about your project.

WordPress template hierarchy:

http://wphierarchy.com/


####Looking At The Pieces of WordPress:
____________________________________________________________________________

To access the WordPress manager remember to add to end of the localhost url:

**wp-admin** 


WordPress placeholders are functions.

For example, MODx had:
* **Chunk**
* **Snippet**
* **Template**
* **Template Variable**

A great place for WordPress documentation is the WordPress codex:

http://codex.wordpress.org/

In WordPress some of the equivalents would be:

* **Shortcodes** - https://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode

Shortcodes are WordPress macros.  Macros go back and forth between the data base and the index.php.

A deeper dive into shortcode is:

http://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode_API

An example is :

**add_shortcode('commentcount', 'comment_count');**

In this case, **add_shortcode** is function with two arguments.

In order to get something to happen, you often have to use the  direct function.

So:

MODx might have been like:  **[easy]**

WordPress might need an actual function like: **function("easy","x")**

Another example is to change the title, of a WordPress page. Start with the Codex:

https://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/get_the_title

Open your project in WordPress:

wp-title is the equivalent of site title in MODx.

In WordPress the code for **get the title** is:


	<?php echo get_the_title($ID); ?>


It is similar to MODx's **getResources**


A useful map to the WordPress hierarchy same link as above but for convenience:

http://wphierarchy.com/



####Understanding The WordPress Loop:
____________________________________________________________________________

An important method of repitition in WordPress is called **The Loop**:

https://codex.wordpress.org/The_Loop

* **Post** - a blog post
* **The Loop** - goes through blog posts
* **Page** - a page can have a loop

The idea of the loop is why WordPress has both posts and pages.

An example blog:

http://quicheaweek.wordpress.com/


Click on different elements to identify the difference between pages and posts.

**The Loop** is all of the current posts on the front page.

The **About** page does not have a loop because it is static without the updating blog posts.

####Capstone Project vs Portfolio Site:
____________________________________________________________________________

A **Portfolio** site is:

* An ongoing professional engagement tool
* Meets your need to show off your work…in seconds.
* Can be in MODx, WordPress, gh-pages, etc.
* URL links
* It is important to have a site that is active and out there
* A demonstration of recent work
* Demonstrate that you worked on a team
* It has stood up to use by real users

A **Capstone** project is:

* It is a Client site
* Pitch
* Brief
* Wireframes
* Important that it meets the client needs
* Creates an opportunity for you to say to an employer "I can do the work that you want me to do."
* Demonstrates
	* Technical Skills
	* Technical Understanding
	* Working in a team
	* Demonstrates project management
	* Ability to work on fast, short time schedules
* The result is a **story** is that we got a client, worked with the client and delivered to a client
* Find an appropriate work scope that can be finished within the constraints of the project
* Set up expectations that you are able to fulfill
 
	
	




####Other Class Resources:
____________________________________________________________________________


The current weekly plan can be found at:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/week08/week08_plan.md

The current Code Challenge can be found at:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/code_challenge_05/code_challenge_05.md
