#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####April 18, 2014 - Class 24

####Agenda:
____________________________________________________________________________

* Video Conferencing
* Progress Reporst
* Lab

####Video Conferencing:
____________________________________________________________________________

Download and install Skype

Once it is loaded, request a conference with Al.

Just as in a face to face meeting,  when you are video conferencing, presentation is extremely important.

Good options for video conferencing

* Skype

* Google Hangouts

* gotoMeeting

* Webx


####What happens before the meeting?
____________________________________________________________________________


There are cultural norms around business meeting and there are cultural norms around Skype as well.

You protect your flow during tha day and reduce the number of distractions.  In a video conference, protecting your flow and reducing the number of distractions is even more important.

If you create a meeting, you have to make sure that you are on the eveyone schedules.

It is sometimes important to have a technical set up time before the actual meeting and make sure your own set up works.

Work out as many of technical glitches as possible before hand.  It makes the meeting go smoother and you will get more things accomplished.

####Good Preparation for a Video Conference Call
____________________________________________________________________________

* Verify audio and video
* Be online early
* Set up screens and presentations
* Establish a back channel for private communicaiton
* Mute everything
* Think about the position of the camera
* Have a good still shot when your video is muted
* Wear good clothing and take a shower


####During the meeting
* Have an agenda
* Start on time and end on time
* Be prepared

Practice making sure the sounds works before your meeting.

Use a microphone.  The biggest problem is alway feed back between the microphone and the speaker.

If possible, test your video as well.

####Back Channel Communications are Important
____________________________________________________________________________

It is often necessary to communicate with your team during a meeting.  

Basecamp or Google Chats are good places to have a secondary communications



####Use a Head Shot
____________________________________________________________________________


When you are muted, Skype provides a still head shot.

Make it a good, professional headshot.

When you are muted, your clients will be staring at your head shots for hours.


####Tips for Good Video
____________________________________________________________________________


* Camera at eye level
* Focus the camera
* Look behind the camera - Focus 2ft behind the camera
* "Smile" post ita camera
* What's going on behind you? - Clean it up and simpler the better
* Mute! Mute! Mute!
* Show! Show! Show!
* Remind yourself to smile!

####Tips for Good Audio
____________________________________________________________________________


* Headset. No excuses.
* Test your audio before the meeting
* Headsets are important
* Never use speakers
* Mute! When you are not talking
* Unmute! When you are talking
* Proper etiquette is important

####Screensharing
____________________________________________________________________________
* Zoom!
* Fonts are huge
* Clients might be viewing your work on a small screen

####Multi-way Conversation
____________________________________________________________________________
* Not a broadcast
* A set of 1-on-1 conversations


####Lighting
____________________________________________________________________________
* Key light is often up and to the right
* A background fill would also be useful


####Skype Controls
____________________________________________________________________________
* Left Contact List
* Camera is the mute button
* Audio mute is the microphone
* "+" is the share button - Skype Premium $5/ mo.
* Red horizontal phone - Hang Up
* Far right button is the screen resize

Remote communications are super important.  It is great for freedom and your autonomy.
