#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####April 14, 2014 - Class 22

####Bootstrap now supports SASS!

http://getbootstrap.com/getting-started/#download

###Bootstrap and Grid Systems:
____________________________________________________________________________

####What is a responsive framework?

http://responsive.vermilion.com/compare.php

A responsive framework is useful for having a grid that uses standardized html and css for supporting page from devices of different sizes.


####Bootstrap Grid Systems:

http://getbootstrap.com/examples/grid/

Grids are a super useful way of organizing the information on your site.  Bootstrap is a great tool with lots of useful design patterns build in.

In our case, we are going to be learning it via Bootstrap.

Bootstrap grid is always based on a size of **12**.

The grid width of **12** size can be divided in lots of ways:

* Two columns of size 6 grids each
*  Four columns of size 3 grids
*  Even 12 size grid of 1 space each
*   And many more as long as the toal is 12!

Grids do not have to be the same size. Grids of different sizes can be combined:

* Left side bar 3, content of size 6 and a right side bar of 3
* Left column of 4 and middle section of 4
* And many more as long as the total is 12!

You can also use different grids at different locations in your page.


####Nim's JSFiddle Demonstration:

http://jsfiddle.net/nimwunnan/gxHd2/


####Bootstraps Four Tiers of Sizes
* **xs** - extra small
* **sm** - small
* **md** - medium
* **lg** - large

These are the screen sizes at which the grids change.  One common change is having the grids stack rather than having them in a line.


Here is an example:

```
	div class="row">
        <div class="col-md-4">.col-md-4</div>
        <div class="col-md-4">.col-md-4</div>
        <div class="col-md-4">.col-md-4</div>
      </div>
```

Here are three columns of grid size **4**.  The screen size that they change is **md** for medium.

Here is another example:

```
   	  <div class="row">
        <div class="col-md-3">.col-md-3</div>
        <div class="col-md-6">.col-md-6</div>
        <div class="col-md-3">.col-md-3</div>
      </div>

```
Here is a grid of three items.  Two items are grid width **3** and one grid widht of **6**. Again the size at which the grid changes is again **md**.

It is possible to change grid sizes at different screen widths.  Look at this example:

```
 	<div class="row">
        <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8">.col-xs-12 .col-md-8</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6 col-md-4">.col-xs-6 .col-md-4</div>
      </div>
      <div class="row">
        <div class="col-xs-6 col-md-4">.col-xs-6 .col-md-4</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6 col-md-4">.col-xs-6 .col-md-4</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6 col-md-4">.col-xs-6 .col-md-4</div>
      </div>
      <div class="row">
        <div class="col-xs-6">.col-xs-6</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6">.col-xs-6</div>
      </div>

```

We can start with the first line:

```
        <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8">.col-xs-12 .col-md-8</div>
 
```

This says that at the extra small size of **xs** there is a grid width of **12**.   At size medium size of **md** there is a grid width of **8**.

####Bootstrap CSS

Our CSS is being built on the foundation CSS of bootstrap, we will be making changes in the top section that looks like:

```
.container {
  padding-right: 15px;
  padding-left: 15px;
}

h4 {
  margin-top: 25px;
}
.row {
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}
.row .row {
  margin-top: 10px;
  margin-bottom: 0;
}
[class*="col-"] {
  padding-top: 15px;
  padding-bottom: 15px;
  background-color: #eee;
  background-color: rgba(86,61,124,.15);
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border: 1px solid rgba(86,61,124,.2);
}

hr {
  margin-top: 40px;
  margin-bottom: 40px;
}


```


####CSS Attribute Selectors for Bootstrap
Let's look at this which is an **attribute selector**:

```
[class*="col-"] {
  padding-top: 15px;
  padding-bottom: 15px;
  background-color: #eee;
  background-color: rgba(86,61,124,.15);
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  border: 1px solid rgba(86,61,124,.2);
}

```

The attribute is constructed here:

```
[class*="col-"] {

```

This takes an HTML class attribute and brings it into CSS.  This is necessary because it handles the **col** classes of different sizes.

This CSS call is paired with a call in the HTML. Notice that there are **col**'s of different size.  In our case, the CSS is referring to the col class like these:

```
 	 <div class="row">
        <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8">.col-xs-12 .col-md-8</div>
        <div class="col-xs-6 col-md-4">.col-xs-6 .col-md-4</div>
      </div>
     
```

To learn more, here is the MDN reference on **attribute selectors**:

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Attribute_selectors


####Bootstrap Installation x 2

We will use two versions of the Bootstrap install so that we have examples but we will actually do our project in the SASS version.


Bootstrap with examples:

https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/archive/v3.1.1.zip


Bootstrap with SASS:

https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass/archive/v3.1.1.tar.gz


Play with the Bootstrap examples.  Our project will use the SASS version.

####Remove Stylesheets from the Bootstrap SASS

In your Bootstrap SASS installation, avigate to:

**vendor/assets/stylesheets**

Copy the **stylesheets** into your SASS compiler **Scout**

####Copy Bootstrap Examples

In the non-SASS version installation of Bootstrap, navigate to:


**docs/examples**


These are examples in **LESS** but they will still be useful for our purposes.

###Introduction to JQuery:
____________________________________________________________________________

Go to JQuery.com API documentation:

http://api.jquery.com/

The major challenge in Jquery is figuring out what is available.  There is no way to memorize the API documentation but you should have an understanding of what is possible.


Patterns are a way of transferring wisdom.  It is always good to spend time learning about the patterns that work. Patterns change and adapt to the problem that needs to be solved.  Collectively, these are called **Pattern Languages**.

We are going to identify some useful JQuery patterns to solve some common problems.

**Jquery Pros:**

* Make code simpler
* Easier to read means cheaper and more reliable
* Evens out differences between browsers

**JQuery Cons:**

* Hides what is really happening with code
* Can lead you into put code into your app that you do not understand - Cargo Cult Coding (CCC)
* Maybe become irrelevant as browser adopt common standards


However it is necessary to learn today.

To get the minified version of JQuery:

http://code.jquery.com/jquery-2.1.0.min.js

There is also a **Content Delivery Network** CDN link:


This allows users who already have JQuery to use the one already on their machine without having to download a version with your code.

```
	<script src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.11.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
	
```


####Working with the JQuery API

When we are working with an API our model is like this:

* **Object**
	* Properties
	* Methods
	
In JQuery, our model is like this:

* jQuery()
	* $().xxx.xxx
	
**$**- The dollar sign is symbol of the JQuery API.  It says the next piece of code should be used by JQuery.
	


####Some Common Jquery Calls

JQuery is a very quick way to grab an HTML element so that it used.

* **$('.container')** - which is shorter than document.getElementByClassName('container')
* **$('#table')** - which is shorter than document.getElementById('table')


####Common JQuery Patterns

After selecting an element, here are five common JQuery **patterns** for working with it.  JQuery is really good at:

* **Selection** - Pick something based on a CSS selector
* **Traversal** - Picks something relative to another element
* **Manipulation** - Change the thing that you selected
* **Events** - Respond to events and manipulate the element
* **Method Chaining** - Calling functions one after another

To learn some more here is a good example:

http://jqfundamentals.com/chapter/traversing-manipulating

####JQuery Selection:

* Selects HTML an attribute that might be a class or an id.


####JQuery Traversal:
* Traversing the **DOM** (Document Object Model)
* Allows you to select an element based on its relationship to other DOM elements
* To see the DOM select the **elements** tab in the Chrome Developer Tools

####JQuery Manipulation:
* Allows you to insert elements either before or after the element that was selected
* Allows you to select an **HTML attribute**.  Here is an example with attribute called **required**
* Here is an example:

```
$('[required=required]').addClass('required'); // in JS file

.required {color: red} // in CSS file
```

####JQuery Events:
* Respond to events like a button click
* Or repsond to a page update
* Or determine that the page has been completely loaded
* Keypress
* Keydown
* mousedown - on the downpress of a mouse button
* mouseup - mouse button is released
* focus - a form field recieves focus - the location of the cursor that allows a user to type something
* blur - leaves a form field
* And many more!

####JQuery Method Chaining:

* Automatically feeds the return the value of one method (usaully an array of elements) to the next method in the chain.
* Feeds the results into the next method
* Here is an example:

```
 $('[required=required]').prev('label'). append('<span>*</span').children('span').addClass('required');

```


