*Portland Code School*

Front End Freelancer Course
#Code Challenge 04 - Extending Functionality of Your MODX site
## Add a dynamic, two-level dropdown menu for your site

# Overview
This code challenge extends CC03, and uses the same teams and codebase. You should install the third-party snippet called [Wayfinder](http://rtfm.modx.com/extras/revo/wayfinder), read its documentation, and create a two-level dropdown menu that contains all the published resources on the site. Wayfinder will help create the markup, and you will style it with CSS.

# Specification

* Replace your *navigation* menu with a dynamic one generated by Wayfinder
 * Tag your git commit at the completed CC03 milestone before adding this code to the repo
* Your menu should reflect the document structure in MODX, with one set of links to the resouces at the top level, and then one set of links to the articles that are child resources of a top-level resource
* The top-level menu should be visible by default, and the links to child resources should appear when the user's mouse hovers over the parent link.
* Every item in the menu should link to the page it refers to
* [Links should be created dynamically](http://rtfm.modx.com/revolution/2.x/making-sites-with-modx/structuring-your-site/resources#Resources-LinkingtoaResource) so that you can change the title of a resource without breaking the link.
* Create one unpublished, draft article that cannot be viewed publically on the site
* Create a new page at any level in the site that is hidden from the menu. Users should be able to publically view this page if they have the URL, but they should not see a link in the menu
* Using the ".active" class, the top-level menu item in your navigation menu that corresponds to the page a user is currently viewing should display in a distinctly different color than all the other links, in line with your site's color theme.

**Question for discussion:**

*How will you adapt your current HTML for your navigation menu to a "tpl" chunk that Wayfinder can use?*

*How will you output the second-level HTML and style it in such a way that it won't be visible until the user hovers over the appropriate top-level menu item?*

*You're building something you see in a lot of places online. Are there exsiting resources, examples, or default options that do most of what you're trying to do?*

*How do you make a rule in CSS that only applies to the state of an element when you are hovering over it with your mouse?*

*How will you tailor your workflow to make sure everyone has the current version of the database and all the files when they need them?"*



<hr />
Copyright © 2013-2014 Alan Zimmerman & Nìm Wunnan <br />
Used by permission by Portland Code School