#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####April 25, 2014 - Class 27

####Agenda:
____________________________________________________________________________

* Meet up
* Hosting
* Assignment
* Exploring jQuery
* Code Challenge 06

####Hosting and the Internet:
____________________________________________________________________________
Learning about hosting services

#####Vocabulary

**Hosting** - A place that you can store them so that other people can see them

**Environment** - Everything that surrounds a site or application.  Ex. Operating System, tools, how you are connected to the network

**Development Environment** - Operating system, webserver, coding language, and a database. In our case it would be **Apache**, **PHP**, **MySQL**, and sometimes **WordPress** or **MODx**

**Router** - Connects networks.  A router connects your computer to the internet.

#####To see you network connection: 

On a mac, open **Terminal**:

```
	ifconfig
```

On windows:

```
	ipconfig
```

You might see something like this:

```
lo0: flags=8049<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING,MULTICAST> mtu 16384
	options=3<RXCSUM,TXCSUM>
	inet6 fe80::1%lo0 prefixlen 64 scopeid 0x1 
	inet 127.0.0.1 netmask 0xff000000 
	inet6 ::1 prefixlen 128 
gif0: flags=8010<POINTOPOINT,MULTICAST> mtu 1280
stf0: flags=0<> mtu 1280
en0: flags=8863<UP,BROADCAST,SMART,RUNNING,SIMPLEX,MULTICAST> mtu 1500
	options=2b<RXCSUM,TXCSUM,VLAN_HWTAGGING,TSO4>
	ether c8:2a:14:02:cd:ea 
	media: autoselect (none)
	status: inactive
en1: flags=8863<UP,BROADCAST,SMART,RUNNING,SIMPLEX,MULTICAST> mtu 1500
	ether e0:f8:47:31:78:7e 
	inet6 fe80::e2f8:47ff:fe31:787e%en1 prefixlen 64 scopeid 0x5 
	inet 10.50.3.147 netmask 0xffffff00 broadcast 10.50.3.255
	media: autoselect
	status: active
fw0: flags=8863<UP,BROADCAST,SMART,RUNNING,SIMPLEX,MULTICAST> mtu 4078
	lladdr 70:cd:60:ff:fe:c1:7f:00 
	media: autoselect <full-duplex>
	status: inactive
p2p0: flags=8843<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,SIMPLEX,MULTICAST> mtu 2304
	ether 02:f8:47:31:78:7e 
	media: autoselect
	status: inactive

```

**inet** - IP address

**DACP** - Dynamic Addressing.  The address is not fixed but flexibile

**Firewall** - Allows files to only access certain areas of your computer

**Main Environments:**

* 	**Development** - Local
* 	**Staging**
* 	**Production** - Web/Cloud/Internet

**Environment** have these characteristics:

* Operating Systems
* Applications
* Language
* Webserver

####Development Enviroments vs Production Environments

It is the same machine and some of the components are the same and some are different.

One of the big differences are the webserver in a production environment. 
 
**Production webservers**

* **Thin**
* **Unicorn**
* **ngineX**

**Production Operator Systems**

* Usually Linux
* Sometimes Windows
* Rarely Mac


**Production User Interface**

* **SSH**
* **cpanel**
* **PHP myAdin**


**Development User Interface**

* **GUI** - Graphical User Interface
* **PHP myAdmin**
* **Apps**
* **Shell**

Development and Production are similar with important differences.  Ideally they should be close to being identical.


Develoment is a **physcial** machine like your laptop.  A Production machine is **virtual**.

A installations on a virtual machine happens with a **script**. Your virtual machine is built on the fly to your specifications.


**Production Router**

* **IP** - Internet Protocol
* **Dynamic IP** - Changing all the time
* **Static IP** - 
* **URL** - Uniform Resource Locator - A name that translates into a IP address
* **DNS** - Domain Name service
* **Path** - A filename structure to the file name you want to access
* **Relative Addressing**


####Web Hosting:
____________________________________________________________________________

Building on our analogy of a **development** vs a **production** environment

To move files between our development and production environments:

**FTP** - File Transfer Protocol

**SFTP** - **Secure** File Transfer Protocol


Most hosting requires SFTP

**GIT** is also a great way to move files between environments.  It is also great at tracking and branching

**Source Control** - Managing source files

**Configuration Management** - Controls what has been uploaded and when

A cool map of undersea cables:

http://img.labnol.org/di/undersea_cable_map.png

All of the big companies have regions so always ask which region.

**It would be cool to push to Production the same way we push to Git**


**Platform as a Service**

* **Heroku** - gives you a javascript stack and a postgres database


####Github Pages:
____________________________________________________________________________

Go to github:

https://github.com/


Here is more information on Github pages:

https://pages.github.com/


**Github is free hosting for anyone with a github repository**


#####Good Reasons for Github Branches
* Master
* Features
* Developer

####Three steps in a Git pull
* Fetch
* Merges
* Makes a commit

**Codeline Policy** - Configuration Management -Agree on what a certain branch should be used for often "master"

**Good Git Tips**
* **Master always works**
* **Pull** 
* **Test before a Push**


**A good rule of thumb is that the code on master should work**


####How to Deploy to Github Pages:
____________________________________________________________________________

A broad overview of using **gh-pages**:

* **Make** a **gh-pages** branch
* **Make an index.html on you the gh-pages branch**
* **Push** to gh-pages

Anything on gh-pages should be **client ready**.  Those that should be deployed to production.

**gh-pages** is only for **static** sites not dynmaic, CMS sites.


#####**gh-pages** only reads an **index.html** file

So let's break it down even further by using a Github repository that exists both locally on your computer and Github. From **Terminal**:

To **Make** a branch

```
	git checkout -b gh-pages
```

This will automatically update the new branch to the current state of master.  However later, if you make changes to **master** you will have to update **gh-pages** manually.

To update by **pull**

```
	git pull
```

or if you are on the gh-pages branch you can update by **merge** from master

```
	git merge master

```
In either case, your files in the **gh-pages** branch should be **up to date**.

Finally **push** back to Github to update the **hosted** gh-pages branch

```
	git push
```

In either case, your files in the **gh-pages** branch should be **up to date**.

If you only see the **master** branch on github, you might have to **push** your branches separately with **branchName** being your branch

```
 git push origin branchName
```


To access your new Github page, type in the following URL with your own Git **user name** and the **repo** that you want to access:

```
	username.github.io/repo_name
```

**Remember URL's are case sensitive so match your repo name exactly**

####Production Strategy Tips

It is often useful to push to Production as soon as possible.  It might be hidden by the router from the general public but at least you can work out any **Production** problems early in the process

* **Push early and often**
* **Deploy early and often**

