#Front End Freelancer Class
#####Al Zimmerman - Portland Code School
#####Nim Wunnan - Portland Code School
#####March 31, 2014 - Class 16

####CMS and MODx Review:
____________________________________________________________________________

Here is a link the week06 guide:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/week06/week06_plan.md


#####Three main parts of a Content Management System (CMS):

* **Configuration**
* **Files**
* **Data**

#####Three pieces for a MODx workflow:

* **MOdx Source** - install fresh for project
* **Assets  Folder** - Git repository
* **Database** - Dumps and Restores

#####Database Dump includes:

* **schema** - structure of the data
* **data** - data 

For instructions for installing MODx refer to the class 10 notes:

https://github.com/portlandcodeschool/frontend-freelancer/blob/master/week04/class10_3_17_2014.md

Here is a short version:

#####Go to installing MODx:

http://rtfm.modx.com/revolution/2.x/getting-started/installation/basic-installation


####MODx Installation instructions:
____________________________________________________________________________

http://rtfm.modx.com/revolution/2.x/getting-started/installation/basic-installation

When you get a red error page, you have to setup.

Add setup to the end of the URL

To use the setup:

http://localhost:8888/resources/modx/modxtest/setup/index.php?s=set

Set language to English and go to the Install Options page

MODx needs to talk to the database.  So you need to set up a database.  MAMP already has one!


Next you have to set up a database:

http://localhost:8888/MAMP/?language=English


Go to phpMyAdmin tab to get passwords for database

For Macs:

username: root
password: root

Back to modx install:

add the username and password from above and click test connection

If you get a red error message, you have to create a new database at the MAMP myAdminPhp,
here is the link:

http://localhost:8888/MAMP/?language=English

Call the new database modx_test and click create

Go back to modx page and add the new name of the database with the same usernamer of root and password of root.

Click the test connection

If you are successful you will have a green message.

If this does not work, try and again or ask the teachers!

Click "Create or test database" and you will get some new fields.

Add the administrator user and administrator password.

username: admin

email:  (your email)

password: password

Click next and see the test.  All of the test checks should be green.

If not, you might have to re-create the database. Ask a teacher for help.


####One Possible Workflow for Code Challenge 3:
____________________________________________________________________________


Starting from the database.  Remember a new MODx installation per project.

MySQL database accessed by:

http://localhost:8888/MAMP/?language=English

Export database which creates a dump.  Your partner will have to restore a database to read in your changes.

Save the database dump in a **dump** folder in your **assets** folder in MODx.

Turn the assets folder into a git repository.

Post the repository to github.


Your partners work flow might be the opposite. Pull for github and import the database.


####MODx Review of Static Elements:
____________________________________________________________________________

Open two sites:

* MODx manager for your sandbox

* A view of a new page

In MODx Manager select templates.

On the current template select the box that says "**IsStatic**" in the middle right.

A new dialog should open.

**Resource** - All of the files including HTML, CSS, javascript and images that can be used to render a webpage.

**Template** - An HTML wrapper to modularize a section of code

**Chunk** - chunk of HTML code

**Snippet** - A section of resuable PHP code.

A static resources, the project has a resources that correspond to a static web page.

Create and save a new template in Sublime.

Under static file choose the correct path to the template.

Under the pull down of Media Source for Static File- select Filesystem.

Save the template

You should see the template you wrote in Sublime in the template code area.

This will allow your workflow to edit your files, templates, chunks and snippets in Sublime text rather than the MODx manager window.


#####getResources
http://rtfm.modx.com/extras/revo/getresources


#####MODx Package Management
Get extra getResources

Download and intall

Under Elements tab, select snippets and select getResources.

Go back to Home web page and in the content box type:

```
[[!getResources?
   &tpl='articleTPL'   
   &sortby='menuindex'   
   &includeContent='1'   
   ]]  
 ``` 

This puts a snippet in a resource.  

######This will give me the content of the child resources of this resource.


Basic template

```
<html>
<head>
  <title>[[++site_name]] - [[*pagetitle]]</title>
  <base href="[[++site_url]]" />
</head>
  <body>
    [[*content]]
  </body>
</html>
```

Edit the snippet in Sublime text


tpl or a template structures the resources


Basic chunk as tpl

```
 <h2>[[+pagetitle]]</h2>
    <p>[[+content]]</p>
    <hr>
    <p>This is the end of the article. Go away</p>
 ```

Tell the database where the chunk is located.

Resources a way to get other resources from other pages even if you are not on that page.

####Overview

We displayed a very rough blog post.  Here is a breakdown:


Resource -> Template -> Static File

Resource has a template which has a static file

Resource -> content -> snippet -> getResources plugin

Resource has content which has a snippet which is the getResources

Snippet -> chunk -> static file

Snippet has a tpl chunk which has a static file


Chunk acts as template.

Resource will display a page with two children.


This is a good follow up resource as a tutorial for creating a blog in MODx:

http://rtfm.modx.com/revolution/2.x/case-studies-and-tutorials/creating-a-blog-in-modx-revolution







